COURSE SYLLABUS
S7030H Physiotherapy Orthopedic Manual Therapy Extremities I, 15 Higher Education Credits
Applies to the period
The selected version shows the semester and study period for which this course syllabus applies.
The latest version is shown first.
The course syllabus was approved by the Head of Department at the Department of Health Sciences on 29 June 2014
Revised by the Head of Department at the Department of Health Sciences on 24 June 2014
Education level
Advanced level
Specialization code
A1N
Grading scale
U G VG
Subject
Physiotherapy
Subject group (SCB)
Therapy, rehabilitation and nutritional therapy
Eligibility
Professional degree in physiotherapy//physiotherapy 180 credits or equivalent.
Selection
Higher education credits 20-285 credits
Objectives/Expected learning outcomes
After completing the course, the student should, with a scientific foundation, be able to:
1. Perform adequate physiotherapeutic examination and treatment of functional impairment on a person based on functional anatomy, pain physiology and a biopsychosocial approach.
2. Based on an evidence-based approach, account for adequate examination and treatment interventions.
3. Based on medical science and proven experience, analyze and evaluate examination findings and thereby select, plan, implement and evaluate adequate treatment.
4. The student should be able to account for the theoretical content of the course.
5. The student should be able to account for both physiotherapy and orthopedic manual therapy theories, concepts, history and development.
6. The student should be able to account for basic scientific theories and concepts within the physiotherapy subject area.
Course content
Practical skills training in physiotherapeutic methods for examination, functional assessment and treatment of people with limb problems.
Theoretical subject knowledge in:
Motor control
Motor learning
Functional anatomy and biomechanics
Pain physiology
Physiology and pathophysiology of muscles, tendons, ligaments, joints and cartilage.
Physiotherapy theories, concepts and history
Basic scientific theories and concepts.
The importance of movement, physical activity and other factors that are important for health and recovery are discussed during lessons and in individual work.
Implementation
Learning in the course takes place through lessons at scheduled course meetings in Luleå where theory and supervised method exercises are integrated.
Furthermore, independent work takes place individually or in groups, both with literature studies, study assignments and in patient work regularly during the course.
In all forms of teaching, the student is stimulated and encouraged to problem solve and to adopt a critical reflective attitude.
Examination
Objectives 1, 2 and 3 are examined through a Written Practical Exam (Exam 1, 5 credits. U, G, VG).
Objectives 2 and 4 are examined through a Digital Exam in Medical Science (Exam 2, 5 credits. U, G, VG).
Objective 3 is examined through a Report and Seminar in Motor Control (Exam 3, 1 credit. U, G).
Objective 4 is examined through a Report and Seminar in Physiotherapy and OMT (Exam 4, 1.5 credits. U,G, VG).
Objective 5 is examined through a Report and Seminar in Scientific Method (Exam 5, 2.5 credits. U,G).