COURSE SYLLABUS
S7030H Physiotherapy , Orthopaedic Manual Therapy , The Extremities I , 15 Credits
Valid for the period
The selected version shows the semester and study period for which this course syllabus is valid .
The latest version is presented first .
Course syllabus established by the head of the Dept. of Health Sciences 29 / 06 / 2014
Revised by the head of the Dept. of Health Sciences 24 / 06 / 2014
Education cycle
Second cycle
Second cycle code
A1N
Grading scale
Fail , Pass , Pass with distinction
Subject
Physiotherapy
Subject group ( SCB )
Treatment , rehabilitation and diet treatment
Entry requirements
Professional qualification physiotherapist / / physiotherapy 180 credits or the equivalent .
Selection
Credit 20-285 credits
Intended learning outcomes
On completion of the course , the student should , with a scientific foundation , for individuals with troubles in the extremities , be able to :
1 . Adequately carry out physiotherapy examinations and treatment for physical disability based on functional anatomy , pain physiology and with a biopsychosocial viewpoint .
2 . From an evidence-based view describe appropriate examination and treatment approaches .
3 . Based on medical science and proven experience analyse and evaluate clinical findings and thereby choose , plan , carry out and evaluate adequate treatment .
4 . The student should be able to describe and explain the theoretical course content .
5 . The student should be able to describe both physiotherapy and the orthopaedic manual treatment theories , concepts , history and development .
6 . The student should be able to describe basic scientific theories and concepts within the physiotherapy subject area .
Course content
Practical proficiency training in physiotherapy methods for examination , function assessment and treatment of individuals with troubles in the extremities .
Theoretical subject knowledge within :
Motor control
Motor learning
Functional anatomy and biomechanics
Pain physiology
Physiology and pathophysiology for muscles , tendons , ligaments and cartilage .
Physiotherapy theories , concepts and history
Basic scientific theories and concepts .
The importance of movement , physical activity and other factors that are important for health and recovery are treated during teaching sessions and in individual work .
Course delivery
Learning in the course takes place through lectures at timetabled course meetings in Luleå where theory and supervised method exercises are incorporated .
Furthermore , an independent work takes place individually or in groups , with literature studies , study assignments and in patient care regularly during the course .
In all tuition forms , the student is stimulated and encouraged to carry out problem-solving and to have a critical reflective attitude .
Examination
Objectives 1 , 2 and 3 are examined through written practical examination ( test 1 , 5 credits . Fail , Pass , Pass with distinction ) .
Objectives 2 and 4 are examined through a digital examination in medical science ( test 2 , 5 credits . Fail , Pass , Pass with distinction ) .
Objective 3 is examined through report and seminar in motor control ( test 3 , 1 credit . Fail , Pass ) .
Objective 4 is examined through report and seminar in physiotherapy and OMT ( test 4 , 1.5 credits . Fail , Pass , Pass with distinction ) .
Objective 5 is examined through report and seminar in scientific method ( test 5 , 2.5 credits . Fail , Pass ) .
