course syllabus
S7030H Physiotherapy Orthopaedic manual treatment Extremity I, 15 Credits
Applies for the period
Chosen version shows for which semester and study period as this the course syllabus apply for.
Latest version is first shown.
The course syllabus established by head of department at Dept for Health sciences 29/06/2014
Revised by the head of the Dept for health sciences 24/06/2014
Education cycle
Second cycle
Fördjupningskod
A1N
Grading scale
Fail Pass Pass with distinction
Subject
Physiotherapy
Subject group (SCB)
Treatment, rehabilitation and diet treatment
Entry requirements
Professional qualification physiotherapist//physiotherapy 180 credits or the equivalent.
Selections
Credit 20-285 credits
Aims/Expected study results
On completion of the course, the student with a scientific foundation on individuals with trouble in extremities should be able to:
1 . On an individual carry out adequate physiotherapy study, treatment at physical disability based on functional anatomy and pain physiology and with a biopsychosocial view.
2 . From an evidence-based view account for adequate study and treatment actions.
3 . From medical scholarship and best practice analyse and evaluate clinical findings, choose thereby, plan and carry out and evaluate adequate treatment.
4 . the Student should be able to account for the theoretical the course content.
5 . the Student should be able to account for both the physiotherapy and the orthopaedic manual treatment theories, concepts, history and development.
6 . the Student should be able to account basic scientific theories and concepts in the physiotherapy the subject area.
Course contents
Practical proficiency training in physiotherapy methods for study, function assessment and treatment of individuals with troubles in extremities.
Theoretical subject knowledge in:
Motor control
Motor learning
Functional Anatomy and Biomechanics
Pain physiology
Physiology and pathophysiology for muscles, tendons, ligaments, ligaments and cartilage.
Physiotherapy theories, concepts and history
Basic scientific theories and concepts.
The importance of movement, physical activity and other factors that are important for health and recovering be treated under teaching sessions and in own work.
Implementation
learning in the course takes place through teaching sessions on timetabled course meetings in Luleå where theory and supervised practical exercises are integrated.
Further takes place an independent work individually or in groups, both with literature studies, study assignments and in patient care regular during the course.
Within all tuition forms is stimulated and be encouraged the student to problem-solving and to a critical reflecting attitude.
EXAMINATION
Aim 1, 2 and 3 be examined through In writing practical examination (test 1, 5 credits . Fail, Pass, Pass with distinction).
Objectives 2 and 4 are examined through a Digital examination medical scholarship (test 2, 5 credits . Fail, Pass, Pass with distinction).
Objective 3 is examined through Report and seminar Motor control (test 3, 1 credits . Fail, Pass).
Objective 4 is examined through Report and seminar Physiotherapy and OMT (test 4, 1.5 credits . Fail, Pass, Pass with distinction).
Objective 5 is examined through Report and seminar Scientific method (test 5, 2.5 credits . Fail, Pass).
